
---
nice.evidencecategory: 
---

### Evidence Statement CG66ES21
In the observational study investigating the effect of eating behaviours on weight,20 changes in
blood pressure or lipid profiles were not reported.
In the diabetes nutrition and complications trial19 changes in blood pressure were reported as
the proportion of patients who had a systolic blood pressure <130 mmHg, which decreased
from 28.6% at baseline to 11.9% at the end of the study. Similarly in women there was a
decrease from 15.8% at baseline to 8.8% after 6.5 years. The proportion of patients with a
diastolic blood pressure of <80 mmHg decreased from 26.2% to 21.4% and from 31.6% to
28.1% in men and women respectively.
In this study they reported the number of patients who were adherent to the ADA diet
recommendations and were able to achieve the recommended intakes of various types of fats.
They found that levels of adherence to the recommendations was low with only 26.6% of patients
consuming the recommended amount of saturated fatty acids (SFAs), 13.0% consuming the
recommended =10% of dietary energy from polyunsaturated fats, and 38.5% consuming the
recommended =60% of dietary energy from carbohydrates and monounsaturated fats. They also
estimated that 46.4% of patients consumed a ratio of polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs)/SFAs
>0.4 and 69% consumed a ratio of monounsaturated fats (MUFAs)/SFAs >1.5. Patients who
consumed MUFAs/SFAs <1.5 had a 3.64.7 times greater risk of developing diabetic
complications (confidence intervals (CIs) not presented). Patients who consumed PUFAs/SFAs
<0.4 were 3.48.2 times more at risk of developing diabetic complications. Level 3

[@2006]

[@van_Strien_2007]

