### Discussion
Little extra evidence of note on use of aspirin was available since the last review. However, there is now better understanding of the extent of the CV risk faced by people with Type 2 diabetes. The rather poor direct evidence for people with Type 2 diabetes led to difficulties in assessing the level of risk above which aspirin therapy should be advised. The GDG accepts that its view that all people at, or over, the age of 50 years should treated is somewhat arbitrary. Primary prevention below that age would be by assessment of higher CV risk (family history of premature vascular disease, abnormal lipid profile, marked abdominal adiposity). While thegroup were aware of some discussions over the dose of aspirin to be used in people withdiabetes, they were not presented with any evidence that could lead to a variation from the usual national recommendations of 75 mg.NICE guidance for dipyridamole MR related only to people with cerebrovascular events. The evidence for the use of clopidogrel was noted to relate to acute and non-acute situations. The current guideline review was not concerned with acute vascular events or interventions. The CHARISMA and MATCH trials suggested that the combination of aspirin and clopidogrel
carried a significant side-effect risk of a serious nature not balanced by secure health gain, and therefore could not be generally recommended. NICE guidance for secondary prevention of vascular events in people without diabetes was that clopidogrel should not be used instead of aspirin except where intolerance or hypersensitivity to the latter was present. The specific evidence for people with diabetes, mostly sub-analyses, did not suggest that advice should be varied for people with Type 2 diabetes.
