The group recognised the very considerable difficulties in reaching conclusions from the ev idence in this area. Very little direct information pertaining to people with Type 1 diabetes can be ascertained, whilst the importance of the issue is emphasised by the very high early arterial disease (CVD) risk run by people with Type 1 diabetes. Nevertheless certain sub-groups are known to be at particularly high risk (people with raised albumin excretion rate (micro- albuminuria)), while others combine Type 1 diabetes with combinations of classic risk factors ty pical of the metabolic syndrome and known to be predictors of high arterial risk in people w ith Type 2 diabetes and indeed non-diabetic po pulations. A further group of people will co mbine Type 1 diabetes with a single arterial risk factor or risk marker, while yet others will have Type 1 diabetes but appear low risk otherwise. Ac co r dingly the important factors for surveillance are urinary albumin excretion (most important), other classical risk factors including full lipid profile, and risk markers such as age, family history and some ethnic groups. In accordance with the principle of unified organisation of care, monitoring of these factors annually is to be recommended, but it was recognised that in low risk individuals technology might become capable of programming longer review intervals for serum lipids. The group recognised that different ways of using information from a full lipid profile (calculated LDL and HDL separately, calculation of total: HDL cholesterol ratio, calculation of non-HDL cholesterol) are in use. While the group preferred the first of these as not mixing lipid abnormalities of different pathogenesis, and being a better route to using the treatments for different lipid disorders rationally, it was recog nised that there was not good evidence to suggest supporting one approach over the others. The group could find no confidence in any risk table, engine or equation when applied to people with Type 1 diabetes.