### Discussion
The UKPDS risk engine and to a lesser extent the older JBS-2 charts had some evidence of validity in people with Type 2 diabetes, at least once over the age of 40 years. However, in their latest revision JBS-2 charts for people with Type 2 diabetes are not available. Other estimations based on the Framingham population were not reliable, and the reasons for this were understood. No system included all the desirable variables, with the exception of Archimedes, but this was not intended as a clinical tool.  It was noted that a wide range of epidemiological studies suggested that people with diabeteswere over twice as likely as the background population (age and sex matched) to develop CVD, and that many had confounding factors (such as use of antihypertensive or glucose-lowering medications) which prevented use of calculators. Studies such as the UK validation analysis reported above were clearly not consistent epidemiologically with UK populations at diagnosis, and furthermore excluded people already on therapy, and are therefore not reliable as a means of estimating the size of the population justifying therapy except for comparing tools. The group concluded that the normal approach, once age was considered, of managing nearly all
people with Type 2 diabetes as having risk >20%/10-years was appropriate, particularly as outcome from MI is known to be worse for those with diabetes, and preventative therapy therefore more cost effective. 
Particular concerns were also expressed by the GDG over people with microalbuminuria, those with more extreme family histories of CVD, and those with previous and recurrent CV events. This and the age problem meant that it was recognised that any risk estimation had a limited role. However, the GDG were also concerned that some people with Type 2 diabetes do not have the classical phenotype of the disease with abdominal adiposity (or obesity) and low HDL-C. It was concerned that such people should be recognised at diagnosis and managed more conservatively. 

