The group noted this was an area of considerable importance to people with Type 1 diabetes, but that prevention of hypoglycaemia was considered appropriately under insulin therapy re co mmendations, and secondarily under education and lifestyle issues. The group noted issues re lated to absorption and ingestion of free carbohydrate in people with decreased conscious level. They were concerned that recurrent hypoglycaemia was properly considered in a medical co ntext, and not simply attributed to lifestyle problems secondary to insulin therapy. Hy poglycaemia unawareness was also noted to be an important issue, and be partially reversible and capable of useful management, as now is nocturnal hypoglycaemia (it was noted that the re co mmendations on insulin therapy and clinical monitoring addressed other aspects of such management). No useful hard evidence was available for cognitive decline occurring in people w ith Type 1 diabetes, but the possibility of recurrent severe hypoglycaemia being a contributory factor was felt worth mentioning. The group noted that the ease and safety of administration of glucagon compared to IV glucose (risk of extravasation) meant that in most situations it was the treatment of choice. While it was re co g nised that there were groups of people to whom the identified studies do not apply (starvation, alcohol toxic), and that these people would not be expected to respond well to gl ucagon, it was agreed that the best means of detecting this was by absence of a response to gl ucagon at 10 minutes. Safe follow-up management after either therapy should include oral carbohydrate and awareness of risk of relapse. Users of glucagon injections need appropriate education and training.
