### Evidence Statement CG15AdultES27
Within an overall review of patient education models for diabetes (not type-specific) one health technology assessment80 reviewing four controlled trials of a range of education programmes including items of self-management, self-monitoring, diet and the effects of insulin and exercise, taught by a variety of staff or self-taught, and as an initial intense course or as ongoing programmes, reported a variety of positive outcomes compared to normal care. This review found that one study had demonstrated improvements over 10 years in diabetic control, in ter ms of reduced HbA 1c levels. In another study, an intensive five-day training course was found to be effective in reducing HbA 1c levels. In one study there was no difference in blood gl ucose control with education compared to usual care, while there were no between-group co mparisons made in another other study. Education was also shown to improve blood pressure. There is limited evidence to suggest a reduced rate of ketoacidosis and reduced hospitalisation. However, there was no evidence to indicate that education can reduce body mass index. There is some data to suggest increased incidence of hypoglycaemic episodes. Long-term outcomes of retinopathy or neuro pathy were not found to be significantly affected by education, but there is some limited evidence to suggest nephropathy incidence is improved, although rates were low. Unsurprisingly, diabetes knowledge was significantly improved with education, although this was not true of quality of life. Overall the included trials were of moderate methodological rigour. Three of the trials included were investigating education in the context of intensification of treatment compared to normal care, and it is difficult to be sure that the benefits reported are directl y attributable to the education aspect of the intervention.


