### Discussion
The GDG were cognisant of the previous NICE statin appraisal, the prior Type 2 diabetes guidelines, the ezetimibe appraisal, the deliberations of the NICE guidelines group on management of CVD, and the health economic analysis. The evidence of effectiveness and safety of generic statins, and in particular simvastatin seemed clear, and at current prices probably cost saving in the population with Type 2 diabetes over the age of 40 years (irrespective of experienceof CVD). There may be individuals in this group at lower CV risk (discussed in section 13), butthese people would be uncommon and easily identified by the absence of CV risk factors (see13.1.6). In others statin therapy should usually be with generic simvastatin at standard dosage(40 mg) in line with the prior TA283 and the Heart Protection Study. The group recognised that some people below the age of 40 years were also at high risk (10 year risk >20%, or 20 year risk >40%). It was considered that they would have to be identified by conventional risk factors; presence of features of the metabolic syndrome, strong family history, ethnic group, and evidence of microvascular damage such as nephropathy. Such people would then be treated with a statin, particularly as their 10-year risk horizon came to include 40 yearsof age or greater. However, the contraindication of the use of statins in pregnancy was felt to begreat enough to deserve special mention, for any woman of childbearing potential. The health economic analysis suggested titration to simvastatin 80 mg was highly cost-effective in those whose lipid levels were not controlled to target levels of 4.0/2.0 mmol/l (T-/LDL-C) irrespective of presence or absence of diagnosed CVD.  In those with CVD the health economic analysis suggested that uptitration from simvastatin 80 mg to a more efficacious statin (modelled as atorvastatin 80 mg daily) was cost-effective if the titration targets were not met on the simvastatin. 


