### Discussion
There must be a threshold for glucose control and the development of microvascular co mplications, or non-diabetic people would get complications. Indeed, this threshold must be we ll above the normal range as people with impaired glucose tolerance (IGT) do not (by definition) get microvascular complications. As people with IGT have HbA 1c levels of up to 7.0%, this by itself sets a lower limit of microvascular risk. The microvascular thresholds of HbA 1c 7.5% set around 10 years ago have stood the test of all data published since. If anything the DCCT, Krolewski and McCance data suggest a figure closer to 8.0%. Re co mmendations from the ADA (7.0%) and American College of Endocrinologists (6.5%) are not specific to type of diabetes; data does suggest macrovascular protection is gained by lowering blood glucose levels into the normal range, and the NICE (inherited) guidelines for Ty pe 2 diabetes go for HbA 1c 6.5% in these higher arterial risk individuals. Some people with Type 1 diabetes are at higher arterial risk, notably those with developing nephropathy. This can be identified by increased albumin excretion rate. The presence of features of the metabolic syndrome will also predict higher arterial risk. It may be appropriate to co nsider tighter targets for glucose control (if feasible) in people in these categories. Ho we ve r, these levels are better considered as assessment levels , to be used in setting realistic targets for the individual. Major diabetes services in Europe currently only get about 20% of people with Type 1 diabetes into the sub-7.5% bracket. UK composite data (UKDIABS) shows some services doing better, but this may only represent non-standardised GHb estimation. That current technologies of diabetes care markedly limited the proportion of people on insulin w ho were able to manage themselves to ideal levels was not seen as a bar to setting such assessment levels. It was noted that arterial risk would be likely to have a different relationship in this regard from microvascular risk, and that for the former there was little direct information available for people with Type 1 diabetes, but that the understandings gained in Ty pe 2 diabetes and people without diabetes gave strong guidance in this respect. It was felt that as the assessment of the evidence available pointed to target definition in the same range as other published guidelines, and in particular the NICE inherited guidelines for Type 2 diabetes, there was practical utility for practice of care in having matching recommendations. Lastly the problem of hypoglycaemia in limiting was what achievable in any individual should be addressed within any recommendations, to assuage inappropriate attempts to achieve tight co ntrol and counter impressions of failure if targets are not attained.
