### Discussion
In sulin injection pens were noted to be the overwhelming norm in the UK for insulin delivery for reasons of convenience, ease of teaching and portability. Some devices with particular design characteristics can be used by people with disabilities, where otherwise a third party w ould have to give injections. The desirability and often cost-effectiveness of this was noted. In jection into deep subcutaneous fat, and on the basis of many studies into the tissues of the abdominal wall for mealtime unmodified human insulin, are generally advised and logically based. However the needs and beliefs of individuals in giving their own insulin were felt to be of importance. Simple logic also leads to the conclusion that rotation of injection sites should be within one region rather than between regions. Group members (both clinicians and people w ith diabetes) expressed a widespread experience of repeated self-injection with the same needle without problems arising. The group considered the utility of recommending advice on cleanliness for those who choose to re-use needles, but noted the regulatory position from the Me dicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency (MHRA, formerly the Medical Devices Ag ency) in the bulletin DB2000(04). Consequently, the guideline cannot make such a re co mmendation. Other common sense issues included provision for sharps disposal, and ch eck on the condition of injection sites annually or if blood glucose control problems worsen.
